docs/source/bubbleColumn.rst, before:

Bubble column
=====

This tutorial demonstrates how to run a basic bubble column reactor case. The tutorial assumed you have created and activated the ``bird`` environment and setup path variables as

.. code-block:: console

   conda activate bird
   BIRD_HOME=`python -c "import bird; print(bird.BIRD_DIR)"`
   BCE_CASE=${BIRD_HOME}/../tutorial_cases/bubble_column_20L

The tutorial is located under ``${BCE_CASE}``

This is a code-along tutorial, and the steps are shown in order of how one would go about setting up a case. The reader can execute the commands in the order shown below

To simply run the entire tutorial, do:

.. code-block:: console

   cd ${BCE_CASE}
   bash run.sh

This test is run as part of the continuous integration

Geometry
------------

The geometry details are described in ``${BCE_CASE}/system/mesh.json`` and ``${BCE_CASE}/system/topology.json``

All the steps in this section are done by executing 

.. code-block:: console

   python ${BIRD_HOME}/../applications/write_block_cyl_mesh.py -i system/mesh.json -t system/topology.json -o system

This command generates the appropriate ``blockMeshDict``

Block geometry
~~~~~~~~~~~
BiRD uses a block cylindral geometry description (:ref:`Block cylindrical meshing<block_cyl>`). The block description of the geometry is in ``${BCE_CASE}/system/mesh.json`` under the ``Geometry`` key

.. code-block:: json

   "Geometry": {
            "Radial": {
                    "column_trans" : 275,
                    "column" : 360
            },
            "Longitudinal": {
                    "column_top" : 12000,
                    "head_space" : 9000,
                    "sparger_trans": 1000,
                    "bottom" : 0
            }
   }


Those numbers describes the coordinates of the cylindrical blocks. Using the block diagram discussed in (:ref:`Block cylindrical meshing<block_cyl>`), the geometry is 

.. container:: figures-block-geom-bce

   .. figure:: ../assets/tutorials/bubble_column_20L/block_geom.png
      :width: 50%
      :align: center
      :alt: Schematic of the block cylindrical geometry


Note that the first radial number ``column_trans`` is special and results in 2 radial blocks. The first radial block is the square of the pillow-mesh where the edge is half of the first coordinate :math:`(275/2=137.5)`. The second radial block is the outer-shell of the pillow. 

By default, the coordinates of the block cylindrical geometry are in meters. In this case, the intention was to indicate millimeters instead. This will be handled during the :ref:`Mesh post-treatment<posttreat_bce>` below.

Each one of the cylindrical blocks will be meshed because we are constructing a bubble column. So there is no need for defining one of the blocks as a wall (conversely to the example shown in :ref:`Block cylindrical meshing<block_cyl>`).

The coordinate are shown in the figure above in radial coordinates but OpenFOAM only uses cartesian coordinates. The radial coordinates are transformed in :math:`(x,y)` cartesian coordinate for you. The longitudinal coordinate always matches the :math:`z` cartesian coordinate. In our present case, we want the bubble column axis of revolution to be along the :math:`y`-direction (not :math:`z`). We will show in :ref:`Mesh post-treatment<posttreat_bce>`.

Boundaries
~~~~~~~~~~~
The boundary conditions are described in ``${BCE_CASE}/system/topology.json`` and are used to define the outlet boundary named  ``outlet`` as


.. code-block:: json

   "Boundary": {
                "outlet":[
                           {"type": "top", "Rmin": 0, "Rmax": 0, "Lmin": 0, "Lmax": 1},
                           {"type": "top", "Rmin": 1, "Rmax": 1, "Lmin": 0, "Lmax": 1},
                           {"type": "top", "Rmin": 2, "Rmax": 2, "Lmin": 0, "Lmax": 1}
                         ]
   }


The snippet above defines ``outlet`` as the concatenation of 3 faces of cylindrical blocks. The blocks faces are defined by a pair of block: a ``min`` block and a ``max`` block. Each one of the blocks is defined by its radial index (``Rmin`` or ``Rmax``) and its longitudinal index (``Lmin`` or ``Lmax``). In the bubble column case, the three block faces that define the outlet are
 
#. 1. The boundary between the block ``(Lmin=0, Rmin=0)`` and the block ``(Lmax=1, Rmax=0)``
#. 2. The boundary between the block ``(Lmin=0, Rmin=1)`` and the block ``(Lmax=1, Rmax=1)``
#. 3. The boundary between the block ``(Lmin=0, Rmin=2)`` and the block ``(Lmax=1, Rmax=2)``


.. container:: figures-bound-geom-bce

   .. figure:: ../assets/tutorials/bubble_column_20L/bound_geom.png
      :width: 50%
      :align: center
      :alt: Schematic of the boundary


To finish defining the boundaries of the bubble column, we would need to define the outer walls and the inlet. We do not define any other boundaries for now and BiRD automatically sets non-defined patches as walls. We will show how to set the inlet boundary in :ref:`Inlet path<inletpatch_bce>`.

Mesh
~~~~~~~~~~~
The meshing is defined based on ``Meshing`` in ``${BCE_CASE}/system/mesh.json`` 

.. code-block:: json

   "Meshing": {
           "NRSmallest": 4,
           "NVertSmallest": 12,

The size of the radial mesh is defined using ``NRSmallest``. It denotes the number of mesh point through the smallest radial block. Blocks at :math:`R=0` (where :math:`R` is the radial index of the block shown in the block diagrams above) have radial size :math:`137.5`, at :math:`R=1` have size :math:`275-137.5=137.5`, and at :math:`R=2` have size :math:`360-275=85`. The smallest radial block is at :math:`R=2`, so 4 mesh points will be used to mesh the radial blocks at :math:`R=2`. 

Starting from this number, the number of points in the other radial blocks will be adjusted based on the size of the blocks, to make sure that the mesh size is constant radially. We refer to these numbers as the *base mesh numbers*.

The same goes for ``NVertSmallest`` in the longitudinal direction. 

The mesh size can be further adjusted with the coarsening keys

.. code-block:: json

   "Meshing": {
    ...
           "verticalCoarsening":[
                                  {"ratio": 0.5, "direction": "+", "directionRef": "-"},
                                  {"ratio": 1.0, "direction": "+", "directionRef": "-"},
                                  {"ratio": 1.0, "direction": "+", "directionRef": "-"}
                                ],
           "radialCoarsening":  [
                                  {"ratio": 1.0, "direction": "+", "directionRef": "-"},
                                  {"ratio": 1.0, "direction": "+", "directionRef": "-"}
                                ]

The ratios denote the how the base mesh numbers should be altered. By default, no alteration is done.

In the radial direction, no coarsening or refinement is done in the first two blocks. For the third one, the default setting is used (no coarsening). We recommend to avoid coarsening or refining in the radial direction at the moment: this feature is rarely used and would be prone to bugs.

In the vertical direction, no coarsening is used, except for the first block. In the first block, we reduce the number of mesh points compared to the base mesh by a factor ``0.5``. The mesh size is adjusted using a grading so that a smooth mesh size transition is achieved. The ``direction`` and ``directionRef`` should always be opposite signs. The ``directionRef`` denotes where to look to define a smooth transition. Here, ``directionRef : "-"`` so mesh size to achieve at the bottom of the block should match the size of the mesh in block below. This what we want, because the first vertical block is meshing the headspace, and less and less resolution is needed as :math:`z` increases.

The resulting mesh looks as the picture below. The white line denotes the boundary between the first and the second vertical (also called longitudinal) block.


.. container:: figures-grading-bce

   .. figure:: ../assets/tutorials/bubble_column_20L/grading.png
      :width: 50%
      :align: center
      :alt: Illustration of the grading

.. _posttreat_bce:

Mesh post-treatment
------------

Once ``blockMeshDict`` is generated, the mesh can be constructed using the ``blockMesh`` utility of OpenFOAM

.. code-block:: console

   blockMesh -dict system/blockMeshDict

As mentioned earlier, one might want to define the axis of revolution of the column along the :math:`y` direction, in which case, one can use

.. code-block:: console

   transformPoints "rotate=((0 0 1) (0 1 0))"

Finally, one might want to convert the units from :math:`mm` into :math:`m` , which can be done as 

.. code-block:: console

   transformPoints "scale=(0.001 0.001 0.001)"


.. _inletpatch_bce:

Inlet patch
------------

BiRD allows for the generation of complex patches through the generation of ``.stl`` files that describe the patch geometry. 
Note that we could have generated the outlet patch with another stl file (we do it in the case of the loop reactor tutorial). Here, since the outlet can be simply defined as an entire block cylindrical face, we prefer to define it that way. In the case of the inlet, only part of a block cylindrical face is the inlet, and it is more convenient to use the ``.stl`` approach.

Here, we would like to create a circular sparger centered on :math:`(x,y,z)=(0,0,0)`, and of radius :math:`0.2` m, with a normal face along the :math:`y`-direction
Recall that we scaled our mesh so the outer radius of the column is now :math:`0.360` m, and not :math:`360` m.

The inlet patch geometry is defined in ``${BCE_CASE}/system/inlets_outlets.json`` as 

.. code-block:: json

   "inlets": [
        {"type": "circle", "radius": 0.2, "centx": 0.0, "centy": 0.0, "centz": 0.0, "normal_dir": 1, "nelements": 50}
   ]

This describes exactly the properties shown above. The ``nelements`` key denote the number of triangles in the ``.stl``. 

The following command generates ``inlets.stl``

.. code-block:: console

   python ${BIRD_HOME}/../applications/write_stl_patch.py -i system/inlets_outlets.json

One can visualize the inlet STL patch with Paraview and see that it indeed contains 50 triangles, and that its normal is the :math:`y`-direction.
 
.. container:: figures-stlin-bce

   .. figure:: ../assets/tutorials/bubble_column_20L/stl_inlet.png
      :width: 50%
      :align: center
      :alt: Illustration of the inlet .stl


Now, the inlet must be added to the boundary in place of some of the default wall patches. This can be done using OpenFOAM utilities. By default, OpenFOAM names the patch after the ``.stl`` filename. We can change that using ``sed``. In the end, the new patch is created as 

.. code-block:: console

   cd ${BCE_CASE}/
   surfaceToPatch -tol 1e-3 inlets.stl
   export newmeshdir=$(foamListTimes -latestTime)
   rm -rf constant/polyMesh/
   cp -r $newmeshdir/polyMesh ./constant
   rm -rf $newmeshdir
   cp ${BCE_CASE}/constant/polyMesh/boundary /tmp
   sed -i -e 's/inlets\.stl/inlet/g' /tmp/boundary
   cat /tmp/boundary > constant/polyMesh/boundary

At this point, you can visualize the inlet patch in paraview. The figure below shows the inlet patch in red. One can see that the inlet patch only approximately matches the stl file. In most applications, this amount of approximation is acceptable. If it is not one could

#. 1. modify the block-cylindrical mesh and make sure that the inlet exactly matches an ensemble of block cylindrical faces. Then one defines the inlet patch similarly to the way the outlet patch was constructed. This allows for a very close match to the .stl

#. 2. If 1. is not possible because the sparger geometry is complex, one could use a finer mesh to allow for a close match between the stl and inlet patch.

.. container:: figures-stlin-bce

   .. figure:: ../assets/tutorials/bubble_column_20L/inlet_patch.png
      :width: 50%
      :align: center
      :alt: Illustration of the inlet .stl
 

Initial conditions
------------
The initial conditions are defined through the ``${BCE_CASE}/0/`` time folder. We provide a pre-made folder ``${BCE_CASE}/0.orig/``. Two fields, the volume fraction of gas (``alpha.gas``) and liquid (``alpha.liquid``) are essential in a bubble column and are left for the user to define. We typically define them with the ``setFields`` utility in OpenFOAM which looks up the values defined in ``${BCE_CASE}/system/setFieldsDict``. The important part of the file is shown below

.. code-block:: txt

   defaultFieldValues
   (
       volScalarFieldValue alpha.gas 0.99
       volScalarFieldValue alpha.liquid 0.01
   );
   
   regions
   (
       boxToCell
       {
           box (-1.0 -1.0 -1.0) (10 7 10);
           fieldValues
           (
               volScalarFieldValue alpha.gas 0.01
               volScalarFieldValue alpha.liquid 0.99
           );
       }
   );

Here, everything below :math:`y=7m` is (almost) pure liquid and the rest (``defaultFieldValues``) is (almost) pure gas. 

In the end, the initial conditions are defined by running

.. code-block:: console

   cd ${BCE_CASE}
   cp -r 0.orig 0
   setFields -dict system/setFieldsDict

Mesh post-treatment 2
------------
At this point, the reactor can still be post-treated. We can, for example, ensure that the liquid volume is 20L by doing 

.. code-block:: console

   transformPoints "scale=(0.19145161188225573 0.19145161188225573 0.19145161188225573)"


Global variables
------------
Several cases in BiRD adjust the boundary conditions according to the ``${BCE_CASE}/constant/globalVars`` file. This is useful to get a holistic view of the whole case setup. In this case, ``globalVars`` defines ``uGasPhase`` which is used as an inlet boundary condition in ``${BCE_CASE}/0.orig/U.gas``.

In practice, the gas velocity is set using a vessel-volume-per-minute (or ``VVM`` in ``globalsVars``) which can result in different gas velocity depending on the size of the inlet or the size of the reactor. This is shown in ``globalVars_temp`` and ``globalVars`` as  ``uGasPhase #calc "$liqVol * $VVM / (60 * $inletA * $alphaGas)";``.
Crucially, one needs to set ``liqVol`` (total volume of liquid in :math:`m^3`) and ``inletA`` (inlet area in :math:`m^2`) correctly. This can be done using a mix of OpenFOAM utilities (to get the ``inletA`` value) and BiRD utilities (to get the ``liqVol`` value). The script ``${BCE_CASE}/writeGlobalVars.py`` reads the erroneous ``globalVars_temp`` and writes the correct ``globalVars`` with the appropriate ``liqVol`` and ``inletA``.


This step can be done as

.. code-block:: console

   cd ${BCE_CASE}
   postProcess -func 'patchIntegrate(patch="inlet", field="alpha.gas")'
   postProcess -func writeCellVolumes
   writeMeshObj
   python writeGlobalVars.py

The ``globalVars`` file is also used to set up gas composition through the mass fractions. In this case, ``f_O2`` and ``f_N2`` are set through ``globalVars`` and are used to set the inlet boundary conditions in ``0.orig/O2.gas`` and ``0.orig/N2.gas``.


Setup the bubble model
------------

The bubble model is defined with ``${BCE_CASE}/constant/phaseProperties``. We provide templates of this file for population balance modeling (``${BCE_CASE}/constant/phaseProperties_pbe``) and constant diameter modeling (``${BCE_CASE}/constant/phaseProperties_constantd``).

For example, one choose to use the constant diameter model and do

.. code-block:: console

   cd ${BCE_CASE}
   cp constant/phaseProperties_constantd constant/phaseProperties

Turbulence model
------------

The turbulence model is set as :math:`k-\varepsilon` in the gas phase and the liquid phase. The turbulence model can be activated through ``${BCE_CASE}/constant/momentumTransport.gas`` for the gas phase and ``${BCE_CASE}/constant/momentumTransport.liquid`` for the liquid phase. 

The boundary conditions for the turbulence model are set in ``0.orig/k.*``, ``0.orig/epsilon.*``, ``0.orig/nut.*``. The inlet boundary values are calculated from freestream turbulence correlations shown in ``constant/globalVars``. For example, ``k_inlet_liq #calc "1.5 * Foam::pow(($uGasPhase), 2) * Foam::pow($intensity, 2)";``. 


Run the solver
------------
The solver can be run by executing

.. code-block:: console

   cd ${BCE_CASE}
   birdmultiphaseEulerFoam

By default, the solver will stop after one timestep because it is a case run as part of the continuous integration. To change this, one can modify ``stopAt`` in ``${BCE_CASE}/system/controlDict``

Commit message:

fixing typos and describing the ghost blocks based on convo with Hari

docs/source/bubbleColumn.rst, after:

Bubble column
=====

This tutorial demonstrates how to run a basic bubble column reactor case. The tutorial assumed you have created and activated the ``bird`` environment and setup path variables as

.. code-block:: console

   conda activate bird
   BIRD_HOME=`python -c "import bird; print(bird.BIRD_DIR)"`
   BCE_CASE=${BIRD_HOME}/../tutorial_cases/bubble_column_20L

The tutorial is located under ``${BCE_CASE}``

This is a code-along tutorial, and the steps are shown in order of how one would go about setting up a case. The reader can execute the commands in the order shown below

To simply run the entire tutorial, do:

.. code-block:: console

   cd ${BCE_CASE}
   bash run.sh

This test is run as part of the continuous integration

Geometry
------------

The geometry details are described in ``${BCE_CASE}/system/mesh.json`` and ``${BCE_CASE}/system/topology.json``

All the steps in this section are done by executing 

.. code-block:: console

   python ${BIRD_HOME}/../applications/write_block_cyl_mesh.py -i system/mesh.json -t system/topology.json -o system

This command generates the appropriate ``blockMeshDict``

Block geometry
~~~~~~~~~~~
BiRD uses a block cylindral geometry description (:ref:`Block cylindrical meshing<block_cyl>`). The block description of the geometry is in ``${BCE_CASE}/system/mesh.json`` under the ``Geometry`` key

.. code-block:: json

   "Geometry": {
            "Radial": {
                    "column_trans" : 275,
                    "column" : 360
            },
            "Longitudinal": {
                    "column_top" : 12000,
                    "head_space" : 9000,
                    "sparger_trans": 1000,
                    "bottom" : 0
            }
   }


Those numbers describes the coordinates of the cylindrical blocks. Using the block diagram discussed in (:ref:`Block cylindrical meshing<block_cyl>`), the geometry is 

.. container:: figures-block-geom-bce

   .. figure:: ../assets/tutorials/bubble_column_20L/block_geom.png
      :width: 50%
      :align: center
      :alt: Schematic of the block cylindrical geometry


Note that the first radial number ``column_trans`` is special and results in 2 radial blocks. The first radial block is the square of the pillow-mesh where the edge is half of the first coordinate :math:`(275/2=137.5)`. The second radial block is the outer-shell of the pillow. 

By default, the coordinates of the block cylindrical geometry are in meters. In this case, the intention was to indicate millimeters instead. This will be handled during the :ref:`Mesh post-treatment<posttreat_bce>` below.

Each one of the cylindrical blocks will be meshed because we are constructing a bubble column. So there is no need for defining one of the blocks as a wall (conversely to the example shown in :ref:`Block cylindrical meshing<block_cyl>`).

The coordinate are shown in the figure above in radial coordinates but OpenFOAM only uses cartesian coordinates. The radial coordinates are transformed in :math:`(x,y)` cartesian coordinate for you. The longitudinal coordinate always matches the :math:`z` cartesian coordinate. In our present case, we want the bubble column axis of revolution to be along the :math:`y`-direction (not :math:`z`). We will show in :ref:`Mesh post-treatment<posttreat_bce>`.

Boundaries
~~~~~~~~~~~
The boundary conditions are described in ``${BCE_CASE}/system/topology.json`` and are used to define the outlet boundary named  ``outlet`` as


.. code-block:: json

   "Boundary": {
                "outlet":[
                           {"type": "top", "Rmin": 0, "Rmax": 0, "Lmin": 0, "Lmax": 1},
                           {"type": "top", "Rmin": 1, "Rmax": 1, "Lmin": 0, "Lmax": 1},
                           {"type": "top", "Rmin": 2, "Rmax": 2, "Lmin": 0, "Lmax": 1}
                         ]
   }


The snippet above defines ``outlet`` as the concatenation of 3 faces of cylindrical blocks. The blocks faces are defined by a pair of block: a ``min`` block and a ``max`` block. Each one of the blocks is defined by its radial index (``Rmin`` or ``Rmax``) and its longitudinal index (``Lmin`` or ``Lmax``). In the bubble column case, the three block faces that define the outlet are
 
#. 1. The boundary between the block ``(Lmin=0, Rmin=0)`` and the block ``(Lmax=1, Rmax=0)``
#. 2. The boundary between the block ``(Lmin=0, Rmin=1)`` and the block ``(Lmax=1, Rmax=1)``
#. 3. The boundary between the block ``(Lmin=0, Rmin=2)`` and the block ``(Lmax=1, Rmax=2)``

In the graph below, the vertical block 0 and vertical block 4 are not represented. They are `ghost blocks` that are only used to define bounding boundaries. Likewise, the radial block 3 is not represented is another `ghost block` but can be used to define lateral boundaries.  

.. container:: figures-bound-geom-bce

   .. figure:: ../assets/tutorials/bubble_column_20L/bound_geom.png
      :width: 50%
      :align: center
      :alt: Schematic of the boundary


To finish defining the boundaries of the bubble column, we would need to define the outer walls and the inlet. We do not define any other boundaries for now and BiRD automatically sets non-defined patches as walls. We will show how to set the inlet boundary in :ref:`Inlet patch<inletpatch_bce>`.

Mesh
~~~~~~~~~~~
The meshing is defined based on ``Meshing`` in ``${BCE_CASE}/system/mesh.json`` 

.. code-block:: json

   "Meshing": {
           "NRSmallest": 4,
           "NVertSmallest": 12,

The size of the radial mesh is defined using ``NRSmallest``. It denotes the number of mesh point through the smallest radial block. Blocks at :math:`R=0` (where :math:`R` is the radial index of the block shown in the block diagrams above) have radial size :math:`137.5`, at :math:`R=1` have size :math:`275-137.5=137.5`, and at :math:`R=2` have size :math:`360-275=85`. The smallest radial block is at :math:`R=2`, so 4 mesh points will be used to mesh the radial blocks at :math:`R=2`. 

Starting from this number, the number of points in the other radial blocks will be adjusted based on the size of the blocks, to make sure that the mesh size is constant radially. We refer to these numbers as the *base mesh numbers*.

The same goes for ``NVertSmallest`` in the longitudinal direction. 

The mesh size can be further adjusted with the coarsening keys

.. code-block:: json

   "Meshing": {
    ...
           "verticalCoarsening":[
                                  {"ratio": 0.5, "direction": "+", "directionRef": "-"},
                                  {"ratio": 1.0, "direction": "+", "directionRef": "-"},
                                  {"ratio": 1.0, "direction": "+", "directionRef": "-"}
                                ],
           "radialCoarsening":  [
                                  {"ratio": 1.0, "direction": "+", "directionRef": "-"},
                                  {"ratio": 1.0, "direction": "+", "directionRef": "-"}
                                ]

The ratios denote the how the base mesh numbers should be altered. By default, no alteration is done.

In the radial direction, no coarsening or refinement is done in the first two blocks. For the third one, the default setting is used (no coarsening). We recommend to avoid coarsening or refining in the radial direction at the moment: this feature is rarely used and would be prone to bugs.

In the vertical direction, no coarsening is used, except for the first block. In the first block, we reduce the number of mesh points compared to the base mesh by a factor ``0.5``. The mesh size is adjusted using a grading so that a smooth mesh size transition is achieved. The ``direction`` and ``directionRef`` should always be opposite signs. The ``directionRef`` denotes where to look to define a smooth transition. Here, ``directionRef : "-"`` so mesh size to achieve at the bottom of the block should match the size of the mesh in block below. This what we want, because the first vertical block is meshing the headspace, and less and less resolution is needed as :math:`z` increases.

The resulting mesh looks as the picture below. The white line denotes the boundary between the first and the second vertical (also called longitudinal) block.


.. container:: figures-grading-bce

   .. figure:: ../assets/tutorials/bubble_column_20L/grading.png
      :width: 50%
      :align: center
      :alt: Illustration of the grading

.. _posttreat_bce:

Mesh post-treatment
------------

Once ``blockMeshDict`` is generated, the mesh can be constructed using the ``blockMesh`` utility of OpenFOAM

.. code-block:: console

   blockMesh -dict system/blockMeshDict

As mentioned earlier, one might want to define the axis of revolution of the column along the :math:`y` direction, in which case, one can use

.. code-block:: console

   transformPoints "rotate=((0 0 1) (0 1 0))"

Finally, one might want to convert the units from :math:`mm` into :math:`m` , which can be done as 

.. code-block:: console

   transformPoints "scale=(0.001 0.001 0.001)"


.. _inletpatch_bce:

Inlet patch
------------

BiRD allows for the generation of complex patches through the generation of ``.stl`` files that describe the patch geometry. 
Note that we could have generated the outlet patch with another stl file (we do it in the case of the loop reactor tutorial). Here, since the outlet can be simply defined as an entire block cylindrical face, we prefer to define it that way. In the case of the inlet, only part of a block cylindrical face is the inlet, and it is more convenient to use the ``.stl`` approach.

Here, we would like to create a circular sparger centered on :math:`(x,y,z)=(0,0,0)`, and of radius :math:`0.2` m, with a normal face along the :math:`y`-direction
Recall that we scaled our mesh so the outer radius of the column is now :math:`0.360` m, and not :math:`360` m.

The inlet patch geometry is defined in ``${BCE_CASE}/system/inlets_outlets.json`` as 

.. code-block:: json

   "inlets": [
        {"type": "circle", "radius": 0.2, "centx": 0.0, "centy": 0.0, "centz": 0.0, "normal_dir": 1, "nelements": 50}
   ]

This describes exactly the properties shown above. The ``nelements`` key denote the number of triangles in the ``.stl``. 

The following command generates ``inlets.stl``

.. code-block:: console

   python ${BIRD_HOME}/../applications/write_stl_patch.py -i system/inlets_outlets.json

One can visualize the inlet STL patch with Paraview and see that it indeed contains 50 triangles, and that its normal is the :math:`y`-direction.
 
.. container:: figures-stlin-bce

   .. figure:: ../assets/tutorials/bubble_column_20L/stl_inlet.png
      :width: 50%
      :align: center
      :alt: Illustration of the inlet .stl


Now, the inlet must be added to the boundary in place of some of the default wall patches. This can be done using OpenFOAM utilities. By default, OpenFOAM names the patch after the ``.stl`` filename. We can change that using ``sed``. In the end, the new patch is created as 

.. code-block:: console

   cd ${BCE_CASE}/
   surfaceToPatch -tol 1e-3 inlets.stl
   export newmeshdir=$(foamListTimes -latestTime)
   rm -rf constant/polyMesh/
   cp -r $newmeshdir/polyMesh ./constant
   rm -rf $newmeshdir
   cp ${BCE_CASE}/constant/polyMesh/boundary /tmp
   sed -i -e 's/inlets\.stl/inlet/g' /tmp/boundary
   cat /tmp/boundary > constant/polyMesh/boundary

At this point, you can visualize the inlet patch in paraview. The figure below shows the inlet patch in red. One can see that the inlet patch only approximately matches the stl file. In most applications, this amount of approximation is acceptable. If it is not one could

#. 1. modify the block-cylindrical mesh and make sure that the inlet exactly matches an ensemble of block cylindrical faces. Then one defines the inlet patch similarly to the way the outlet patch was constructed. This allows for a very close match to the .stl

#. 2. If 1. is not possible because the sparger geometry is complex, one could use a finer mesh to allow for a close match between the stl and inlet patch.

.. container:: figures-stlin-bce

   .. figure:: ../assets/tutorials/bubble_column_20L/inlet_patch.png
      :width: 50%
      :align: center
      :alt: Illustration of the inlet .stl
 

Initial conditions
------------
The initial conditions are defined through the ``${BCE_CASE}/0/`` time folder. We provide a pre-made folder ``${BCE_CASE}/0.orig/``. Two fields, the volume fraction of gas (``alpha.gas``) and liquid (``alpha.liquid``) are essential in a bubble column and are left for the user to define. We typically define them with the ``setFields`` utility in OpenFOAM which looks up the values defined in ``${BCE_CASE}/system/setFieldsDict``. The important part of the file is shown below

.. code-block:: txt

   defaultFieldValues
   (
       volScalarFieldValue alpha.gas 0.99
       volScalarFieldValue alpha.liquid 0.01
   );
   
   regions
   (
       boxToCell
       {
           box (-1.0 -1.0 -1.0) (10 7 10);
           fieldValues
           (
               volScalarFieldValue alpha.gas 0.01
               volScalarFieldValue alpha.liquid 0.99
           );
       }
   );

Here, everything below :math:`y=7m` is (almost) pure liquid and the rest (``defaultFieldValues``) is (almost) pure gas. 

In the end, the initial conditions are defined by running

.. code-block:: console

   cd ${BCE_CASE}
   cp -r 0.orig 0
   setFields -dict system/setFieldsDict

Mesh post-treatment 2
------------
At this point, the reactor can still be post-treated. We can, for example, ensure that the liquid volume is 20L by doing 

.. code-block:: console

   transformPoints "scale=(0.19145161188225573 0.19145161188225573 0.19145161188225573)"


Global variables
------------
Several cases in BiRD adjust the boundary conditions according to the ``${BCE_CASE}/constant/globalVars`` file. This is useful to get a holistic view of the whole case setup. In this case, ``globalVars`` defines ``uGasPhase`` which is used as an inlet boundary condition in ``${BCE_CASE}/0.orig/U.gas``.

In practice, the gas velocity is set using a vessel-volume-per-minute (or ``VVM`` in ``globalsVars``) which can result in different gas velocity depending on the size of the inlet or the size of the reactor. This is shown in ``globalVars_temp`` and ``globalVars`` as  ``uGasPhase #calc "$liqVol * $VVM / (60 * $inletA * $alphaGas)";``.
Crucially, one needs to set ``liqVol`` (total volume of liquid in :math:`m^3`) and ``inletA`` (inlet area in :math:`m^2`) correctly. This can be done using a mix of OpenFOAM utilities (to get the ``inletA`` value) and BiRD utilities (to get the ``liqVol`` value). The script ``${BCE_CASE}/writeGlobalVars.py`` reads the erroneous ``globalVars_temp`` and writes the correct ``globalVars`` with the appropriate ``liqVol`` and ``inletA``.


This step can be done as

.. code-block:: console

   cd ${BCE_CASE}
   postProcess -func 'patchIntegrate(patch="inlet", field="alpha.gas")'
   postProcess -func writeCellVolumes
   writeMeshObj
   python writeGlobalVars.py

The ``globalVars`` file is also used to set up gas composition through the mass fractions. In this case, ``f_O2`` and ``f_N2`` are set through ``globalVars`` and are used to set the inlet boundary conditions in ``0.orig/O2.gas`` and ``0.orig/N2.gas``.


Setup the bubble model
------------

The bubble model is defined with ``${BCE_CASE}/constant/phaseProperties``. We provide templates of this file for population balance modeling (``${BCE_CASE}/constant/phaseProperties_pbe``) and constant diameter modeling (``${BCE_CASE}/constant/phaseProperties_constantd``).

For example, one choose to use the constant diameter model and do

.. code-block:: console

   cd ${BCE_CASE}
   cp constant/phaseProperties_constantd constant/phaseProperties

Turbulence model
------------

The turbulence model is set as :math:`k-\varepsilon` in the gas phase and the liquid phase. The turbulence model can be activated through ``${BCE_CASE}/constant/momentumTransport.gas`` for the gas phase and ``${BCE_CASE}/constant/momentumTransport.liquid`` for the liquid phase. 

The boundary conditions for the turbulence model are set in ``0.orig/k.*``, ``0.orig/epsilon.*``, ``0.orig/nut.*``. The inlet boundary values are calculated from freestream turbulence correlations shown in ``constant/globalVars``. For example, ``k_inlet_liq #calc "1.5 * Foam::pow(($uGasPhase), 2) * Foam::pow($intensity, 2)";``. 


Run the solver
------------
The solver can be run by executing

.. code-block:: console

   cd ${BCE_CASE}
   birdmultiphaseEulerFoam

By default, the solver will stop after one timestep because it is a case run as part of the continuous integration. To change this, one can modify ``stopAt`` in ``${BCE_CASE}/system/controlDict``
